networking in linux part 2:

A group of interconnected computers are called as a netwrok.
Working on networks and handling them would be called as networking.

why do we need networking?
Share resources across the netwrok.
communicate across the network with other users.

if we have to stop or start any internet connection on linux
eg:ifconfig
then see the the ports to which we are connected to for example it is port4
so we use command :
#sudo ifdown port4 :the connection will stop or dismissed
#sudo ifup port4 :connection will start.


#ping:
a way to check wether a computer can communicate with another computer over the network.
1: ping google.com: to check wether ur computer is connected to internet or not. we have send a packet to google.com that we are connected to it or not google telss us the response.
2:#ping -c 5: 
System just send 5 packets
ping command is the most useful and basic commands to check both computers connected or not



#wget: A command used to retieve content from web servers 
#wget <URL>

Its primary purpose is to download webpages.
GNU Wget is a command-line utility for downloading files from the web. With Wget, you can download files using HTTP, HTTPS, and FTP protocols. Wget provides a number of options allowing you to download multiple files, resume downloads, limit the bandwidth, recursive downloads, download in the background, mirror a website, and much more.

Installing Wget on Ubuntu and Debian
#sudo apt install wget

.Saving the Downloaded File Under Different Name
To save the downloaded file under a different name, pass the -O option followed by the chosen name:

wget -O latest-hugo.zip https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/archive/master.zip
Copy
The command above will save the latest hugo zip file from GitHub as latest-hugo.zip instead of its original name.

.You can resume a download using the -c option. This is useful if your connection drops during a download of a large file, and instead of starting the download from scratch, you can continue the previous one.

.Downloading Multiple Files
If you want to download multiple files at once, use the -i option followed by the path to a local or external file containing a list of the URLs to be downloaded. Each URL needs to be on a separate line.
